+++
draft = false

title = "Real time observation of martensite transformation for a 0.4C low alloyed steel by neutron diffraction"

abstract = "A high-intensity and high-resolution neutron diffractometer with a thermomechanically controlled processing simulator was employed in-situ to investigate martensite transformation behavior with and without ausforming for a medium-carbon low-alloy steel. Serial neutron diffraction profiles have revealed that the transformation behavior could be successfully monitored during quenching with and without the ausforming process. The fresh martensite exhibits a body-centered tetragonal structure when it forms immediately below the martensite start (Ms) temperature, and its c/a ratio decreases rapidly as time elapses. The lattice parameter and the full width at half maximum of austenite peaks significantly decreases and increases upon martensite transformation, respectively. After ausforming, the data reveal that lattice parameters are larger in austenite whereas smaller in martensite compared with those in the non-ausformed case, which is ascribed to the introduced dislocations. Thus, the lattice defects affect the lattice parameter during martensite transformation. Ausforming also slightly raises the Ms temperature and increases the amount of retained austenite at room temperature as a result of different dislocation densities. The cutting-edge operant quantitative measurements with neutron diffraction for steel production is demonstrated."

abstract_short = ""
authors = ["Yanxu Wang","Yo Tomota", "Takahito Ohmura", "Satoshi Morooka", "Wu Gong", "Stefanus Harjo"]
date = "2019-11-21"
image_preview = ""
math = true
publication_types = ["2"]
doi = "10.1016/j.actamat.2019.11.051"
publication = "Acta Materialia"
publication_short = "Acta Mater"

featured = true

url_code = ""
url_dataset = ""
url_pdf = ""
url_project = ""
url_slides = ""
url_video = ""
event_url = ""

[[url_custom]]
name = "Poster"
url = ""

# Optional featured image (relative to `static/img/` folder).
[header]
image = "headers/2019_TCMP.jpg"
caption = "Y.Wang, Y.Tomota and T.Ohmura et al./ Acta Materialia 184 (2020) 30–40"


+++

